---
layout: post
title: "First impressions: Go"
description: "Playing with Go"
category: 
tags: [ Go, First Impression, Golang ]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Ever since Google release [Go](http://www.golang.org/) I've been curious. Many good things were said and I always read bits and pieces here and there. Last week I decided to dive deeper and write some small things and get to know the language. 

So far I'm really impressed. This is a quick list of things I've noticed:

### Language

The go language is full of nice suprises. I haven't seen everything, but just a few things that really impressed me:

* Semicolons are optional!
* Type inference with the ``:=`` operator!
* Curly braces after if statements are required, but regular (round) brackets around the condition are not!
* The language does tuples, which means you can cool things like double assignments: ``int a,b := 27, 6``
  A lot of the functions in the class library seem to return tuples, one value being the actual result and the other a status/error code.
* It feels very C-like but comes with garbage collection!
* Declaring but not using variables is an error! 
* Maps are part of the language, and their declaration requires the last element to be trailed by a comma: `` map[string]int { "a":1, "b":2, }  ``
* Go has slices, something like an array but different. 
* Reasonable to string conversion for all built in types
* The [package library](http://golang.org/pkg/) is huge! Need a MIME multipart parser? All there. Need to deal with PNG's or JPEGs? Go got you covered. Need to start a simple HTTP server with like two lines of code? [Here you go.](http://golang.org/doc/articles/wiki/#tmp_3)



### Tooling

* Go's compiler is fast. And calling it just a compiler is an understatement. The ``go`` tool does so many useful things:

	* It acts as a build tool. Point it to a directory and it will build everything in it
	* Also, it'll format your source code: ``go fmt ``
	* Dependencies will magically be downloaded. (Note to self: until I figure out how this works, it's Magic!)

* godoc. It's fantastic. Run godoc -http:6060 and you have your own webserver that servers the go documentation. 

### Build Output

* Binaries are statically linked per default. A Hello World program is a whooping 1MB, but I guess it pays off in deployment scenarios. 
* I built a simple wiki following the instructions on the go website, and the runtime memory consumption of the entire app, including the HTTP server was 3.3MB.

### Summary

All in all I've only scratched the surface, but what I've seen is really impressive. The Go language itself seems very powerful and has some interesting mechanisms and I hope I can find more time to play with it. 



### See also

* [Learning Go](http://www.miek.nl/projects/learninggo/) Free book on learning go. Reading it right now and it's quite good!
